docs(secret-manager): Add tutorial to use GitHub action to retrieve secrets (#1714)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/github-action-secret-manager/index.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Use GitHub action to fetch secrets from the Secret Manager
  description: Learn how to use the Scaleway GitHub action to fetch secrets and exposes them as environment variables in your workflow
content:
  h1: Use GitHub action to fetch secrets from the Secret Manager
  paragraph: Learn how to use the Scaleway GitHub action to fetch secrets and exposes them as environment variables in your workflow
tags: secret-management github-action continuous-integration
categories:
  - secret-manager
  - security-identity
dates:
  validation: 2023-05-24
  posted: 2023-05-24
---

## GitHub Actions - Overview

[GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) makes it easy to automate all your software workflows, now with world-class CI/CD. Build, test, and deploy your code right from GitHub. Make code reviews, branch management, and issue triaging work the way you want.

> In this tutorial you will lear how to use the [Scaleway Secret Manager GitHub Action](https://github.com/scaleway/action-scw-secret) in your GitHub Actions workflow to retrives your secrets stored in the Scaleway Secret Manager and exposes them as environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial you will lear how to use the [Scaleway Secret Manager GitHub Action](https://github.com/scaleway/action-scw-secret) in your GitHub Actions workflow to retrieve your secrets stored in the Scaleway Secret Manager and expose them as environment variables.
```

Often times when doing Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment, you need to access to secrets to log in to a Docker registry, push some code changes, call some APIs, ...

A good practice is to use a [Secret Manager](/identity-and-access-management/secret-manager/quickstart/) to store your secrets, securely, in one place. When doing that you have to copy/paste your secrets and put them in your CI which duplicates the secrets and leads to descynchronization with your source of truth. Here comes the GitHub action.

## Preparing your GitHub repository

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have created an [API key](/docs/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/)
</Messgae>

> Create the necessary secrets for the GitHub repository in **Settings** > **Secrets and Variables** > **Actions**

Reviewer: Using steps here would add clarity :)

Author: Sure, I will try to rewrite this part

Often times when doing Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment, you need to access to secrets to log in to a Docker registry, push some code changes, call some APIs, ...

A good practice is to use a [Secret Manager](/identity-and-access-management/secret-manager/quickstart/) to store your secrets, securely, in one place. When doing that you have to copy/paste your secrets and put them in your CI which duplicates the secrets and leads to descynchronization with your source of truth. Here comes the GitHub action.

## Preparing your GitHub repository

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have created an [API key](/docs/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/)
</Messgae>

Create the necessary secrets for the GitHub repository in **Settings** > **Secrets and Variables** > **Actions**

You need to create the following secrets:
- `SCW_ACCESS_KEY`: your API access key
- `SCW_SECRET_KEY`: your API secret key
- `SCW_DEFAULT_ORGANIZATION_ID`: your organization ID
- `SCW_DEFAULT_PROJECT_ID`: the project ID where you have your secrets

> ![repository secrets](acssets/repository-secrets.webp)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="repository-secrets.webp" alt="repository secrets" />
```

---
meta:
  title: Use GitHub action to fetch secrets from the Secret Manager
  description: Learn how to use the Scaleway GitHub action to fetch secrets and exposes them as environment variables in your workflow
content:
  h1: Use GitHub action to fetch secrets from the Secret Manager
  paragraph: Learn how to use the Scaleway GitHub action to fetch secrets and exposes them as environment variables in your workflow
tags: secret-management github-action continuous-integration
categories:
  - secret-manager
  - security-identity
dates:
  validation: 2023-05-24
  posted: 2023-05-24
---

## GitHub Actions - Overview

> [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) makes it easy to automate all your software workflows, now with world-class CI/CD. Build, test, and deploy your code right from GitHub. Make code reviews, branch management, and issue triaging work the way you want.

Author: This one comes directly from the GitHub action page, but we can rephrase it

> [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) makes it easy to automate all your software workflows, now with world-class CI/CD. Build, test, and deploy your code right from GitHub. Make code reviews, branch management, and issue triaging work the way you want.

Reviewer 3: Okay we can leave it as is then :)

Often times when doing Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment, you need to access to secrets to log in to a Docker registry, push some code changes, call some APIs, ...

A good practice is to use a [Secret Manager](/identity-and-access-management/secret-manager/quickstart/) to store your secrets, securely, in one place. When doing that you have to copy/paste your secrets and put them in your CI which duplicates the secrets and leads to descynchronization with your source of truth. Here comes the GitHub action.

## Preparing your GitHub repository

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have created an [API key](/docs/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/)
</Messgae>

You will need to create the following secrets in your GitHub repository. Follow the steps bellow:

- `SCW_ACCESS_KEY`: your API access key
- `SCW_SECRET_KEY`: your API secret key
- `SCW_DEFAULT_ORGANIZATION_ID`: your organization ID
- `SCW_DEFAULT_PROJECT_ID`: the project ID where you have your secrets

> 1. Navigate to **Settings** > **Secrets and Variables** > **Actions** of your GitHub Repository
> 2. Click **New repository secret** and fill the **Name** and **Secret** fields.
> 3. Click **Add secret** to submit.
> 4. Repeat until you have all the secrets

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to **Settings** > **Secrets and Variables** > **Actions** of your GitHub repository.
2. Click **New repository secret** and fill in the **Name** and **Secret** fields.
3. Click **Add secret**.
4. Repeat the steps above until you have created all the secrets.
```

> GitHub secrets are immutables, if you want to update the value, you need to delete the current secret and create a new one.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
GitHub secrets are immutable. If you want to update the value, you need to delete the current secret and create a new one.
```

<Lightbox src="repository-secrets.webp" alt="repository secrets" />

> ## Use the GitHub action in your workflow

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Use GitHub Action in your workflow
```

Suppose you already have a workflow defined in `.github/workflows/test.yml`, you can now use the action by adding the following code:

```yaml
[...]
    steps:
[...]
      - uses: scaleway/action-scw-secret@v0
        with:
          secret-names: |
            my-github-secret
          access-key: ${{ secrets.SCW_ACCESS_KEY }}
          secret-key: ${{ secrets.SCW_SECRET_KEY }}
          default-project-id: ${{ secrets.SCW_DEFAULT_PROJECT_ID }}
          default-organization-id: ${{ secrets.SCW_DEFAULT_ORGANIZATION_ID }}
[...]
```

This will tell the GitHub action to access the **latest** version of your secret called `my-github-secret` and will expose its value as the environment variable `MY_GITHUB_SECRET`. You are now able to use this environment variable in the following steps of the job like this:

```yaml
[...]
      - run: echo "Successfully retrieve 'my-github-secret' with value $MY_GITHUB_SECRET"
```

> The value will be shown as `***` in the logs of your action to prevent leak of the secret value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The value will be shown as `***` in the logs of your action to prevent the secret value from being leaked.
```

## Resources

> Here the full content of the workflow described above:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The full content of the workflow described above is the following:
```
